# Usage
If installed using `install.sh`, simply run:
```
tgbot
```
Otherwise, navigate `node` to your `tgbot.js` path:
```
node /Your/Bot/Path/tgbot.js
```
### Initial commands
`/getid`
> Receive `dev_chat_id` for `conf.json` !(must be used only in PMs with bot)!
#
`/js ...`
> Execute JavaScript in `dev_chat_id` chat room
#
**Examples of files can be found [here](https://github.com/reineimi/tgbot/tree/main/example).**

<br><br><hr>

# Installation
Simply open Linux/Android (Termux) terminal and run:
```
curl -LO bit.ly/tgbot_ei; sh tgbot_ei
```
Or, manually:
## 1. Install Node.js
**Linux:** `nodejs` and `npm` packages

**Windows:** https://nodejs.org/en/download

**Android (Termux):**
```sh
pkg upgrade; pkg install nodejs
```

## 2. Install Grammy.js
Create a folder(s) in your preferred directory (let's call it `DIR`) and run:
```sh
npm install --prefix DIR grammy
```

## 3. Download tgbot.js
Download [tgbot.js](https://github.com/reineimi/tgbot/blob/main/tgbot.js) or clone/unzip the whole repo in the same `DIR`.

## 4. Configure the bot
In the same `DIR`, add and/or modify `conf.json` as you need.

<br><br><hr>

# Files
## conf.json
Will be generated from `install.sh` or created manually. Contains:
```json
{
  "bot_token": "000:000",
  "dev_chat_id": "000",
  "github": "user/repo",
  "localFiles": true,
  "localPath": "example",
  "commandsMenu": false,
  "keywordsMenu": true
}
```
From which:<br><br>
`bot_token`
> Your token generated by [BotFather](https://t.me/botfather)
#
`dev_chat_id`
> Your `chat id` received from `/start` command. Allows bot to execute JS from **your PM**.<br>
> Please use `chat id` **only** from **your private messages with the bot**
#
`github`
> Your GitHub username and repository, taken from:<br>
> **https:// github.com /`user` /`repo`**
#
`localFiles`
> Use Current Working Directory's subdirectory instead of GitHub repo?
#
`localPath`
> Home subdirectory path
#
`commandsMenu`
> A button with commands list in the chat
#
`keywordsMenu`
> A list of buttons beneath the chat

#
## commands.json
A list of commands with the following syntax:
```json
{
  "command": "description",
  "test": "A test"
}
```
> Note: Commands are `/command` actions with associated text documents.

Once you've added a command, create the corresponding `.md` document file in the same directory:<br>
`command.md` (example: `test.md`).

#
## keywords.json
A list of keywords (phrases) with the following syntax:
```json
{
  "keyword": "filename.extension",
  "A test": "example.jpg"
}
```
> Note: Keywords are buttons/phrases with associated images and text documents.

Same as with commands, we create corresponding files for every keyword, for example:<br>
`example.jpg` and `example.md`.

<br><br><hr>

# Examples
You can take a look at examples in [this](https://github.com/reineimi/tgbot/tree/main/example) folder.
